Okay, in this demonstration we'll look at File History and OneDrive.
I've become a fan of Windows key + Q and just typing what I want in Cortana.
I'll type file history, and it wants to open up File History from Control Panel,
now that's interesting.
And this actually brings us not to what I wanted.
This brings us to the Restore or Recovery interface.
Okay, let's try this again.
Let me just hit the Start button and type file history.
That, again, wants to open the File History Control Panel to restore files,
but that assumes that we've already got the feature enabled.
We want, in the Settings app Backup settings, at least that's one way to do it.
File History is a little bit gnarly in terms of you can enable it
in both Control Panel and in the Settings app.
Let me show you what I mean.
I'll put the Settings app over on one side,
and now I'll right-click Start, go to Run,
and type control to open the classic Control Panel,
and I'm going to search in there for file history,
and we see a File History entry right here,
so there's two separate interfaces for the same thing.
Now if File History is turned off, you can turn it on.
Let me actually switch to another machine that does
not have File History turned on.
This time I'll type backup to go directly to the Backup Settings setting.
You add a drive that serves as a repository for your File History.
So this is normally a large capacity USB external drive that you plan to
permanently connect to your Windows 10 workstation,
again, to repeat what I had going on in my other machine,
we'll also open up the classic Control Panel and
look at File History as well here.
So File History is off.
If we turn it on, it automatically chooses the biggest disk on my system.
I do have an F drive called Drive F here.
If we go to Add a drive, it searches,
and we're going to actually need to refresh the view here.
Let me go back Home, and go back to Backup settings, and it should refresh.
Yep, it's gone from Off to On.
If we go to More options here, it tells us what we've got going on.
We can do a backup right now, we can backup from every 10 minutes to daily,
the hour is the default, keep my backups forever,
and then it gives us a list of folders that are monitored,
including OneDrive, the Desktop folder, Downloads,
Contacts, it grabs your library data as well.
You can explicitly exclude folders,
you can stop using this drive and point File History to another drive if,
for instance, you're running out of space.
There's actually more going on in Settings than
there is here in old Control Panel,
so let's just focus specifically here on the Settings experience,
let me go above.
You can always manually add additional folders to be included in file backup,
and then, as I said, you can run backups either automatically on a schedule,
or you could do it ad hoc as you saw here.
I have been running File History on this other machine for a little while now,
so the idea is if we lose a file we can get it back.
So, for instance, let me go into my Downloads folder,
sort my files by name, and let's just take this App1.
publishsetttings file and I'm going to delete it and actually
empty the Recycle bin so that file is gone,
right?
Well as long as I have File History running,
I can start key Q, file history, Restore your files with File History,
and the Restore interface is strictly old Control Panel.
If you've ever used Apple Time Machine,
this isn't as glitzy an interface as Time Machine,
but it's better than nothing.
Now notice it'll say x of y.
Depending up on how many snapshots it's taken,
you can move back and forth here through those different snapshots,
and it gives you a run of all of your locations.
I have, let's see it would be Downloads wouldn't it,
so let's browse into Downloads, and there's the App1.
publishsettings file.
Now this is as of two days ago, so again,
you might want to be more robust in how often File History checks,
but you know,
even to get the file back as of two days ago is a pretty big win it seems to me.
If I right-click, I can preview the file.
In some cases, it can preview.
This is an xml format file, so it's a little non-standard.
We can open it up here, and we can save off a copy of it.
Maybe I'll peel it off into the desktop.
This is good not only for recovery purposes,
but also for versioning,
if you want to compare an earlier version of a file with a current one,
you see?
Let me step back, let me select this file,
and then click Restore to original location,
and it automatically opened up my Downloads folder,
and there's the file.
So as you can see, File History is largely a set it and forget it operation,
it's pretty awesome. Now here's my OneDrive.